---
title: "Resume"
menu: "main"
weight: 4
---

.. raw:: html

   <p class="tr">
   <a href="../malalur_resume.pdf" class="link hover-near-black underline-hover light-silver">PDF</a>
   </p>

Summary
~~~~~~~

Over 10 years of experience collaborating with domain experts to translate business requirements into data driven solutions, leading the development of machine learning powered data products, and supporting clients worldwide to ensure their success. Experienced in startup and small business culture with an agile mindset for problem understanding, learning, rapid prototyping and delivering results.

Skills
~~~~~~

-  Programming: Python & C
-  Libraries & Frameworks: Numpy, SciPy, Matplotlib, Statsmodels,
   Pandas, Dask, Pytest, Scikit-learn, PyTorch, TensorFlow 2.0
-  Data Management: SQL & Apache Spark
-  Project Management: Agile software development, Atlassian Jira
-  Tools: Git, Vim, RestructuredText, Docutils, Sphinx, Pandoc, LateX
-  Web Technologies: HTML, CSS; Python web frameworks: Flask, Dash

Experience
~~~~~~~~~~

Research Engineer Jan. 2010 - Present
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Hunter Well Science (a startup founded in Dec. 2009), Arlington, Texas 2010 - 2017
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

Probe Technology Services (`Hunter merged with Probe <https://www.probe1.com/probe-and-hunter-well-science-announce-strategic-merger/>`__ in Dec. 2017), Fort Worth, Texas 2018 - Present
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

Lead architect for the adoption of machine learning and data driven practices into Probe's Geological Formation Evaluation Platform 

*(2018 - Present)*

   -  Worked with the leadership team and domain experts to expand
      Probe's formation evaluation product line to meet unique
      challenges in unconventional oil reservoir management.
   -  Applied neural networks, statistical signal processing, and convex
      optimization to physical measurements gathered from sensor arrays
      on oil well-logging instruments, and provided solutions for
      identifying oil-producing zones, diagnosing well flow and
      monitoring time-lapsed performance.
   -  Added intellectual property in the form of trademark and trade
      secrets to Probe's portfolio.
   -  Liaised with top-ten international oil and gas companies and
      provided technical assistance for global sales.

Project and technical lead for a commercial data analysis and interpretation platform 

*(2015 - 2017)*
                                                                                                     

   -  Led the design and development of the product. Managed a
      cross-functional team consisting of software engineers, geologists
      and petrophysicists.
   -  Integrated multifaceted oil-well data with machine learning
      algorithms. Created data pipelines and processes for visualizing
      and interacting with data and for optimizing oil production over
      the life of an oil well.
   -  The product established a revenue generating service for
      petrophysics interpretation and attracted international sales.

Built end-to-end data pipelines to automate predictive model generation and consumption 

*(2013 - 2014)*
                                                                                                       

   -  Reduced the time for sensor data analysis and interpretation by
      engineering automation workflows, leading to faster field
      decisions and significant savings in operational expenses.
   -  Developed data processing pipelines to clean, format, transform,
      store and retrieve large amounts of synthetic sensor data
      generated by computer models, using the Monte Carlo N-Particle
      (`MCNP <https://mcnp.lanl.gov/>`__) code.
   -  Leveraged data to build customized statistical models to
      accurately predict unknown geological parameters including rock
      type, porosity, and fluid saturation.
   -  Deployed an internal web application to browse, filter, search,
      and export the models using Python, Flask, and Dash.

Developed a software library for controlling tools and processing data, in real-time, for Geological Formation Evaluation Solution suite 

*(2010 - 2013)*
                                                                                                                                                        

   -  Engineered solutions for quality control, analysis and
      visualization of streaming sensor data in real-time.
   -  Performed applied research on using nuclear technology for
      measuring properties of geological formation. Migrated prototypes
      from research into production ready packages.
   -  Worked effectively as a part of a multi-disciplinary engineering
      team consisting of hardware, firmware, mechanical and software
      engineers.

Selected Publications & Presentations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Robinson, M. D., Manry, M. T., Malalur, S. S. & Yu, C., "Properties
   of a Batch Training Algorithm for Feedforward Networks", Neural
   Processing Letters, Vol. 45 No. 3, pp. 841-854, 2017, Springer US.
-  Malalur, S. S., Manry, M. T. & Jesudhas, P., "Multiple optimal
   learning factors for the multi-layer perceptron", Neurocomputing,
   Vol. 149, pp. 1490-1501, 2015 Elsevier.
-  Jesudhas, P., Manry, M. T., Rawat, R. & Malalur, S. S., "Analysis and
   improvement of multiple optimal learning factors for feed-forward
   networks", International Joint Conference on Neural Networks, pp.
   2593-2600, San Jose, CA, 2011.
-  Malalur, S. S. & Manry, M. T., "Feed-forward Network Training Using
   Optimal Input Gains", International Joint Conference on Neural
   Networks, pp. 2326-2333, Atlanta, GA, 2009.

Education
~~~~~~~~~

-  Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from The University of Texas at
   Arlington, 2009
-  M.S. in Electrical Engineering, The University of Texas at Arlington,
   2004
-  B.E., Electronics and Communication, Bangalore University, India,
   2000

Activities
~~~~~~~~~~

-  Journal peer review assignments: Elsevier Neurocomputing, IEEE TNNLS,
   Springer NCA.
-  Professional society memberships: SPWLA, SPE.
-  Active member of local machine learning, deep learning and data
   science Meetup groups.
-  Personal practices: Meditation, strength & mobility training, playing
   drums, juggling.
