content/posts/manifest.md, before:

---
date: "2019-11-26T16:00:00"
draft: false
title: "Introducing Theme Manifest for Hugo"
---

# What?

Manifest is a theme for the static site generator [Hugo](gohugo.io).

> **Manifest**
>
> man.i.fest (*adjective*)
>
> clear or obvious to the eye or mind

# Demo

View demo [here](https://goopyflux.github.io/manifest-demo/)

# Design

- High impact home/landing page, using only text
- Emphasis on text legibility and readability
- Site navigation aimed to reduce clicks
- Clean, lean, minimal and functional
- Near-black, near-white and gray color scheme
- Pro-web accessibility
- Responsive

# Features

- Stays out of the way and puts the emphasis on content and readability
- Uses [Tachyons](tachyons.io) CSS for styling
- Designed with [web accessibility](http://uxmovement.com/content/6-surprising-bad-practices-that-hurt-dyslexic-users/) in mind
- Aims to be generic enough for various use cases
- Dedicated landing page
- List and sigle views
- Title, summary, wordcount and reading time in list view
- Taxonomy using tags and categories
- Multiple menus - one on home page; one in list and single views and one in the footer
- Social icons integration

# Why?

Simple answer is because I am picky. There are plenty of great themes available. What started as a simple clone and use with a few candidate themes, quickly turned into tweaking, picking and choosing features from various themes, with no end. It was at this point I also realized the scalability issue with *traditional* CSS.

Enter Tachyons - *a functional CSS for humans*. Its beautiful, responsive, readable, performant, modular, lightweight, simply awesome! I just had to use it.

# Usage

1. Install [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/overview/installing/) and create a new website:

```bash
hugo new site my_website
cd my_website
```

2. Install Manifest theme with [git](https://help.github.com/articles/set-up-git/):

```bash
 git clone https://github.com/goopyflux/manifest.git themes/manifest
```

Or alternatively, [download Manifest](https://github.com/goopyflux/manifest/archive/master.zip) and extract it into a `themes/manifest` folder within your Hugo website.

3. If you are creating a new website, copy the contents of the `exampleSite` folder to your website root folder, overwriting existing files if necessary. The `exampleSite` folder contains an example config file and content to help you get started.

```bash
cp -av themes/manifest/exampleSite/* .
```

4. Start the Hugo server from your website root folder:

```bash
hugo server --watch
```

Now you can go to [localhost:1313](http://localhost:1313) and your new Academic themed website should appear.

5. Customize your website (see next section), build it by running `hugo`, and deploy it by copying the `public/` directory (by FTP, Rsync, git push, etc.) to your production web server.

# About

I had a vision for what the website should look like. It was made into a reality due to the kindness of others. Thanks in particular to:

- The entire [Hugo](gohugo.io) community
- The entire [Tachyons](tachyons.io) community
- The [fitter-happier-text](https://github.com/jxnblk/fitter-happier-text) project
- The [Hugo Academic](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic) for content

This is my attempt to pay it forward.

# Getting Started

More details coming soon...

# Upgrading

Feel free to *star* the project on [Github](https://github.com/goopyflux/manifest/) and monitor the commits for updates.

Before upgrading the theme, it is recommended to make a backup of your entire website directory, or at least your `themes/manifest` directory. You can also read about the [most recent milestones](https://github.com/goopyflux/manifest/releases) (but this doesn't necessarily reflect the latest *master* release).

Before upgrading for the first time, the remote *origin* repository should be renamed to *upstream*:

```bash
    $ cd themes/manifest
    $ git remote rename origin upstream
```

To list available updates:

```bash
    $ cd themes/manifest
    $ git fetch upstream
    $ git log --pretty=oneline --abbrev-commit --decorate HEAD..upstream/master
```

Upgrade by running:

```bash
    $ cd themes/manifest
    $ git pull upstream
```

If you have modified files in `themes/manifest`, git will attempt to auto-merge changes. If conflicts are reported, you will need to manually edit the files with conflicts and add them back (`git add <filename>`).

If there are any issues after upgrading, you may wish to compare your site with the latest [example site](https://github.com/goopyflux/manifest-demo/) to check if any settings changed.

# Contributing

Please use the [issue tracker](https://github.com/goopyflux/manifest/issues) to let me know about any bugs or feature requests, or alternatively make a pull request.

# License

Released under the [MIT](https://github.com/goopyflux/manifest/blob/master/LICENSE.md) license.

Commit message:

Nav menu reordering and expansion. Summary display in list view for Writings. Added resume PDF with link in main nav menu.

content/posts/manifest.md, after:

---
title: "Introducing the Manifest Theme for Hugo"
summary: "A clean, responsive theme for Hugo using Tachyons CSS"
---

# What?

Manifest is a theme for the static site generator [Hugo](gohugo.io).

> **Manifest**
>
> man.i.fest (*adjective*)
>
> clear or obvious to the eye or mind

# Demo

View demo [here](https://goopyflux.github.io/manifest-demo/)

# Design

- High impact home/landing page, using only text
- Emphasis on text legibility and readability
- Site navigation aimed to reduce clicks
- Clean, lean, minimal and functional
- Near-black, near-white and gray color scheme
- Pro-web accessibility
- Responsive

# Features

- Stays out of the way and puts the emphasis on content and readability
- Uses [Tachyons](tachyons.io) CSS for styling
- Designed with [web accessibility](http://uxmovement.com/content/6-surprising-bad-practices-that-hurt-dyslexic-users/) in mind
- Aims to be generic enough for various use cases
- Dedicated landing page
- List and sigle views
- Title, summary, wordcount and reading time in list view
- Taxonomy using tags and categories
- Multiple menus - one on home page; one in list and single views and one in the footer
- Social icons integration

# Why?

Simple answer is because I am picky. There are plenty of great themes available. What started as a simple clone and use with a few candidate themes, quickly turned into tweaking, picking and choosing features from various themes, with no end. It was at this point I also realized the scalability issue with *traditional* CSS.

Enter Tachyons - *a functional CSS for humans*. Its beautiful, responsive, readable, performant, modular, lightweight, simply awesome! I just had to use it.

# Usage

1. Install [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/overview/installing/) and create a new website:

```bash
hugo new site my_website
cd my_website
```

2. Install Manifest theme with [git](https://help.github.com/articles/set-up-git/):

```bash
 git clone https://github.com/goopyflux/manifest.git themes/manifest
```

Or alternatively, [download Manifest](https://github.com/goopyflux/manifest/archive/master.zip) and extract it into a `themes/manifest` folder within your Hugo website.

3. If you are creating a new website, copy the contents of the `exampleSite` folder to your website root folder, overwriting existing files if necessary. The `exampleSite` folder contains an example config file and content to help you get started.

```bash
cp -av themes/manifest/exampleSite/* .
```

4. Start the Hugo server from your website root folder:

```bash
hugo server --watch
```

Now you can go to [localhost:1313](http://localhost:1313) and your new Academic themed website should appear.

5. Customize your website (see next section), build it by running `hugo`, and deploy it by copying the `public/` directory (by FTP, Rsync, git push, etc.) to your production web server.

# About

I had a vision for what the website should look like. It was made into a reality due to the kindness of others. Thanks in particular to:

- The entire [Hugo](gohugo.io) community
- The entire [Tachyons](tachyons.io) community
- The [fitter-happier-text](https://github.com/jxnblk/fitter-happier-text) project
- The [Hugo Academic](https://github.com/gcushen/hugo-academic) for content

This is my attempt to pay it forward.

# Getting Started

More details coming soon...

# Upgrading

Feel free to *star* the project on [Github](https://github.com/goopyflux/manifest/) and monitor the commits for updates.

Before upgrading the theme, it is recommended to make a backup of your entire website directory, or at least your `themes/manifest` directory. You can also read about the [most recent milestones](https://github.com/goopyflux/manifest/releases) (but this doesn't necessarily reflect the latest *master* release).

Before upgrading for the first time, the remote *origin* repository should be renamed to *upstream*:

```bash
    $ cd themes/manifest
    $ git remote rename origin upstream
```

To list available updates:

```bash
    $ cd themes/manifest
    $ git fetch upstream
    $ git log --pretty=oneline --abbrev-commit --decorate HEAD..upstream/master
```

Upgrade by running:

```bash
    $ cd themes/manifest
    $ git pull upstream
```

If you have modified files in `themes/manifest`, git will attempt to auto-merge changes. If conflicts are reported, you will need to manually edit the files with conflicts and add them back (`git add <filename>`).

If there are any issues after upgrading, you may wish to compare your site with the latest [example site](https://github.com/goopyflux/manifest-demo/) to check if any settings changed.

# Contributing

Please use the [issue tracker](https://github.com/goopyflux/manifest/issues) to let me know about any bugs or feature requests, or alternatively make a pull request.

# License

Released under the [MIT](https://github.com/goopyflux/manifest/blob/master/LICENSE.md) license.
